Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
1.A: A programming language is specific human readable way to telling computer what to do?
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
What is IDE?
2. A: It is an software application which helps user to do coding fast and easy way.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
3. A: Eclipse, intelliJ,NetBeans,JDevelopers,JCreators are famous in market to helps user to do code.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
what is class?
4. A: class is blueprint for an object.Class let us to make an object. without class we can't make an object.
What is object?
5. A: Object is a Specific elements of a class. an object expressed by the variables and methods.
What is the entry point of an application?
6. A: The main method() is the entry point of an application.
Why main is static?
7. A: Main is a static method so the user can call any static method that created outside the main mathod without
creating any object inside the main method.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
8. A: The object class which is stored in java.lang is the superclass of all classes.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
9. A: In Interface all method must be abstract method, Abstract class contain normal method and abstract method.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
10. A : No. It is not possible to create an object from an Interface and abstract class. We have to override all of
its method to use it.
what is Access Specifier?
11.A : It is a Keyword in java to setup accessibility of classes, methods and other members in java.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
12. A : Object oriented programming is oop. They are abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, and polymorphism.
    Abstraction: It is the process of hiding certain information to everyone except the user.
    Encapsulation: this java process make sure that some data information is hidden from user. to get these
    we have to use "get" and "set" Keyword. and the method should be private.
    Inheritance:In this process we can inherited data information from one class to another class by using
    keyword "extends".
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
13. A: It is a folder where we can create a multiple class inside it to avoid name conflicts and batter coding.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
14. A: Application Program Interface. We have used BufferedReader, FileReader, Scanner, String.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
15.A:  Java dose not allow multiple inheritance to avoid the ambiguity caused by it.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
16.A: In overloading we can have the same method name but different parameters
      It happens in compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
17.A:  It is an event which occurs during the execution of a program which disrupts the program's instructions. It is
      handled by try and catch block.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
18.A: The static variable can be used to refer the common property of all objects

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
19.A: Final variables are nothing but constants. We cannot change the value of a final variable once it is initialized.

What is final, finally and finalize?
20.A: The keyword final is an access modifier, finally is a block and finalize is a method.

What is a constructor?
21.A: constructor is a special type of subroutine called to create an object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
22.A: Yes we can

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
23.A: Static keyword that are used for share the same variable or method of a given class.
      Static variable:
      1) It's a variable that's associated with a class and not with the object of the class.
      2) Static variables are initialized only once.

      Static Method:
      1) A static method belongs to the class rather than object of a class.
      2) A static method can be invoked without the need for creating an instance of a class.
      3) Static method can access static data member and can change the value of it.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
24.A: this. is a reference variable in Java, it reference to the current object whose method or constructor is being invoked.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
25.A: Super" keyword is used to call the constructor, methods and properties of a parent class.
      super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
      super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
      super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
26.A: Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
27.A:  Yes.

What version of java are you using?
28.A:  12.00

What is JAR stand for?
29.A: Java Archive is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files and associated metadata and
      resources (text, images, etc.) into one file for distribution.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
30.A: JVM loads the binary code verifies the code and send signal to the OS accordingly.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
31.A: JVM: is the heart of Java programming language. When we execute a Java program, JVM is responsible for converting
     the byte code to the machine-specific code.
     Jre: is the implementation of JVM. It provides a platform to execute java programs. JRE consists of JVM, Java binaries, and other classes to execute any program successfully.
          JRE doesn’t contain any development tools such as Java compiler, debugger, JShell, etc.

What is compile time and run time?
32.A:   Compile time - the time period in which you are compiling the code
      Run time - the time period in which you are running your piece of software

What is heap?
33.A:  Runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays are located.

How java manage it's memory?
34.A:  Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease
      in size while the application runs.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
35.A:  Once a String object is created it cannot be changed
      StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object .
      StringBuilder allows manipulating character sequences by appending, deleting and inserting characters and strings.

What is Singleton class?
36.A:  Singleton class is to control object creation by keeping private constructor.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
37.A:  Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or
      database or can be sent through streams. The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.

When to use transient variable in java?
38.A:  the transient keyword to indicate to the Java virtual machine that the indicated variable is not part of the persistent state of the object.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
39.A:  Contrast with the while loop, which tests the condition before the code within the block is executed,
      the do-while loop is an exit-condition loop. This means that the code must always be executed first and
      then the expression or test condition is evaluated. If it is true, the code executes the body of the loop again.

What is Enum?
40.A: Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.
      More precisely, a Java enum type is a special kind of Java class. An enum can contain constants, methods etc.

What is Iterator?
41.A:  An iterator is an object that represents a stream of data.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
42.A:  int and Integer both represents same number of values.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
43.A:  string objects are immutable. Immutable simply means unmodifiable or unchangeable.
      Once string object is created its data or state can't be changed but a new string object is created.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
44. A:  Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
45. A:  Serial Collector is mostly designed for single-threaded environments.
      Parallel Garbage Collector is used for multi-threaded environments.

What is JIT stands for?
46. A:  Just In Time Operator.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
47. A:  Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in
       size while the application runs. Garbage collection is the process of looking at heap memory,
       identifying which objects are in use and which are not, and deleting the unused objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
48. A:  No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
49. A:  When an object is created its stored in the heap
      Stack creates a memory to the created object
      Stack is used for static memory allocation and Heap for dynamic memory allocation.
      Both stored in the computer's RAM.
      Variables allocated on the stack are stored directly to the memory and access to this memory is very fast,
      The stack is always reserved in a Last In First Out (LIFO) order, the most recently reserved block is always the next block to be freed.
      This makes it really simple to keep track of the stack, freeing a block from the stack is nothing more than adjusting one pointer.
      Variables allocated on the heap have their memory allocated at run time and accessing this memory is a bit slower,
      The heap size is only limited by the size of virtual memory.

what is multithreading in java?
50. A:  MULTITHREADING in Java is a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously to maximum utilization of CPU.
      Multithreaded applications execute two or more threads run concurrently. Hence, it is also known as Concurrency in Java.
      Each thread runs parallel to each other.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
51. A:  Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.
       Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which requires the same lock
       simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
52. A: Framework are the bodies that contains the pre-written codes (classes and functions) in which we can add our code to overcome the problem.
      We can also say that frameworks use programmer's code because the framework is in control of the programmer.
      We can use the framework by calling its methods, inheritance, and supplying "callbacks", listeners, or other implementations of the Observer pattern.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
53. A:  Both Testng and Junit are Testing framework used for Unit Testing. TestNG is similar to JUnit. Few more functionalities are added
      to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit.

What are the dependencies for this project?
54. A:  A project dependency is a logical, constraint-based or preferential relationship between two activities or
      tasks such that the completion or the initiation of one is reliant on the completion or initiation of the other.
      If you are painting a canvas, the application of the oil paint is one activity.

what is dependency injection in java?
55. A:  Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside. ... A Java class has a
      dependency on another class, if it uses an instance of this class. We call this a class dependency.
      For example, a class which accesses a logger service has a dependency on this service class
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
56. A:  Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.
      Overloaded methods are resolved (deciding which method to be called when there are multiple methods with
      same name) using static binding while overridden methods using dynamic binding, i.e, at run time.








